Total failures: 42 / showing 42:

Failure counts by category:
  Albumin Corrected Delta Ratio: 2 failures
  Free Water Deficit: 2 failures
  Caprini Score for Venous Thromboembolism (2005): 2 failures
  FeverPAIN Score for Strep Pharyngitis: 2 failures
  Delta Gap: 2 failures
  Glasgow-Blatchford Bleeding Score (GBS): 2 failures
  Framingham Risk Score for Hard Coronary Heart Disease: 2 failures
  Estimated Due Date: 2 failures
  APACHE II Score: 2 failures
  Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI): 2 failures
  Estimated of Conception: 2 failures
  PSI Score: Pneumonia Severity Index for CAP: 2 failures
  Estimated Gestational Age: 2 failures
  Centor Score (Modified/McIsaac) for Strep Pharyngitis: 2 failures
  LDL Calculated: 1 failures
  Morphine Milligram Equivalents (MME) Calculator: 1 failures
  MELD Na (UNOS/OPTN): 1 failures
  PERC Rule for Pulmonary Embolism: 1 failures
  Wells' Criteria for DVT: 1 failures
  Revised Cardiac Risk Index for Pre-Operative Risk: 1 failures
  Wells' Criteria for Pulmonary Embolism: 1 failures
  MDRD GFR Equation: 1 failures
  CKD-EPI Equations for Glomerular Filtration Rate: 1 failures
  QTc Rautaharju Calculator: 1 failures
  SIRS Criteria: 1 failures
  Child-Pugh Score for Cirrhosis Mortality: 1 failures
  HEART Score for Major Cardiac Events: 1 failures
  Steroid Conversion Calculator: 1 failures

--- Case train.8995: (calculator_name=Albumin Corrected Delta Ratio, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 76-year-old man with a past medical history of prostate cancer, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, and recurring pneumonia was found to have a 10-mm nodule in the left lower lung without hilar or mediastinal lymphadenopathy on CT of the chest with IV contrast (Figure ). CT/PET scan showed abnormal uptake in the lung nodule (Figure ) and grade II cervical lymphadenopathy. CT-guided biopsy of the left lower lung was performed. Histopathology showed a malignant neoplasm of plasmacytoid cells (Figure ). A panel of immunohistochemical stains was performed to further evaluate the lesion. The tumor cells were strongly and diffusely immunoreactive for the melanocytic marker MART-1 (Figure ). However, stains for AE1/AE3, CK7, TIF-1, Napsin, P63, PSA, and PASP were negative. The immunohistochemical results confirmed a diagnosis of metastatic melanoma of unknown primary origin (MUP) to the cervical lymph nodes (LNs) and lungs. The patient had just finished four cycles of ipilimumab when he presented to our clinic complaining of fatigue, generalized weakness, dizziness, nausea, abdominal pain, and a 10-pound weight loss. The patient denied any fever, chills, chest pain, shortness of breath, or diarrhea. He denied any smoking or drug-use history. Vital signs included a blood pressure of 98/60 mmHg, heart rate of 92 bpm, respiratory rate of 20 bpm, and oxygen saturation of 92% on room air. The physical exam was unremarkable except for a slightly enlarged left cervical LN, dark pigmentation of the lips and gingiva, and sinus tachycardia without abnormal heart sounds or murmurs. The complete blood count was within normal limits.
The labs before starting ipilimumab were as follows - sodium (Na): 140 mEq/L (normal range: 135-145 mEq/L), potassium: (K) 3.6 mEq/L (normal range: 3.5-5.2 mEq/L), chloride (Cl): 105 mEq/L (normal range: 96-106 mEq/L), carbon dioxide (CO2): 28 mEq/L (normal range: 23-29 mEq/L), blood urea nitrogen (BUN): 19 mg/dL (normal range: 6-20 mg/dL); creatinine (Cr): 
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's albumin corrected delta ratio? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["A 76-year-old man with a past medical history of prostate cancer, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, and recurring pneumonia was found to have a 10-mm nodule in the left lower lung without hilar or med)
      -> -1.92 [$0.0015]
  RESULT: predicted=-1.92, expected=1.1875, absolute_error=3.1075

--- Case train.6085: (calculator_name=Free Water Deficit, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 65-year-old African American male with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), anemia, and heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) presented to the emergency department with complaints of unintentional weight loss, fevers, chills, and memory decline. He had lost 60 pounds within the past year, with associated functional decline and generalized fatigue. Within the past two months, he had developed fevers and night sweats, and within the past week, he had begun to experience cognitive decline described as being in a “fog,” which had led him to miss familiar exits on the highway and forget his way to his doctor’s office.
Upon presentation to the emergency department, his vitals included a blood pressure of 117/51 mmHg, heart rate of 95 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 18 breaths per minute, O2 saturation of 97%, and temperature of 98.3 °F. Physical exam showed a thin-appearing man in moderate distress secondary to shortness of breath and cognitive issues. Pertinent positives included bilateral shoddy cervical lymphadenopathy, increased respiratory effort with bilateral wheezing and inspiratory crackles, 1+ pretibial edema, and large bilateral axillary lymphadenopathy. A mini-mental status exam (MMSE) revealed a score of 24/30. Laboratory workup revealed WBC of 10.1 x 1000/mm3, Hemoglobin (Hb) of 9.5 g/dL, and platelet count of 400 x 1000/mm3. The basic metabolic panel (BMP) showed sodium of 130 mmol/L, potassium of 3.3 mEq/L, and creatinine of 0.84 mg/dL. Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) was 225 pg/mL (normal range: 5-100). A chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly and mild interstitial edema with bilateral pleural effusions. CT brain revealed no acute findings. Given the patient’s functional decline, diffuse lymphadenopathy, and worsening mental status, he was admitted for further workup and management.
On day two of his admission, collateral information was obtained from the patient’s family, which revealed additional prior workup for 
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's free water deficit in terms of kg? The desired serum sodium concentration is 140 mEq/L. You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 65-year-old African American male with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), anemia, and heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) presented to the emergency depa)
      -> -3.0 [$0.0018]
  RESULT: predicted=-3.0, expected=-0.97198, absolute_error=2.02802

--- Case train.10024: (calculator_name=Caprini Score for Venous Thromboembolism (2005), category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 74-year-old woman arrives in the pre-operative holding area for a planned right knee arthroscopy to address a symptomatic medial meniscal flap tear that has failed three months of structured physiotherapy and two corticosteroid injections; the orthopedic team anticipates fewer than forty minutes of scope time under general anesthesia with discharge later today if she meets ambulation and pain-control goals. She walked from the parking garage using a single-point cane only for confidence on stairs, reports that she still prepares her own meals, gardens in short bursts, and completes household chores without assistance, and nursing intake documents an independent transfer from wheelchair to stretcher without breathlessness or fatigue, confirming that her baseline activity level remains unrestricted for age. The forthcoming scope will be her first operative intervention in more than eight years, and the chart contains no record of any endoscopic or interventional radiology procedure during the past several weeks. Two weeks ago, however, she presented to an outside emergency department with gradually increasing ankle edema, orthopnea, and a 4-kg weight gain over ten days; chest radiography then showed pulmonary vascular congestion and BNP was 960 pg mL⁻¹. Intravenous furosemide was started through a single-lumen peripherally inserted central catheter placed in the left basilic vein; she received three days of gentle diuresis on a telemetry floor, lost the excess fluid, and was discharged on her chronic regimen of torsemide 20 mg and spironolactone 25 mg daily. The PICC remains in place beneath a clear occlusive dressing, flushes without resistance, and returns dark venous blood this morning, and there is no erythema, induration, or tenderness along the tract. She denies fever, chills, night sweats, productive cough, or sputum change since that admission, and there has been no recent antibiotic therapy. Past medical history also includes moderate chronic obstructive pu
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Caprini Score for Venous Thromboembolism? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 74-year-old woman arrives in the pre-operative holding area for a planned right knee arthroscopy to address a symptomatic medial meniscal flap tear that has failed three months of structured physi)
      -> 6.0 [$0.0018]
  RESULT: predicted=6.0, expected=9.0, absolute_error=3.0

--- Case train.5894: (calculator_name=FeverPAIN Score for Strep Pharyngitis, category=diagnosis, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 65-year-old male marathon runner presented to a primary care physician with abrupt onset of posterior left knee pain that began two days before. There had been no injury associated with the pain. He denied systemic symptoms, including fever, chills, night sweats, or malaise. Past medical history included asymptomatic severe mitral valve regurgitation secondary to bileaflet mitral valve prolapse, for which he underwent robot-assisted minimally invasive mitral valve repair and prosthetic ring placement approximately 6 months prior to presentation. There was also a history of hypertension and hyperlipidemia. He lived in the central United States with his wife and was employed as an attorney. He consumed approximately two alcoholic drinks per night, was a never smoker, and had no history of intravenous drug use. There were no other significant exposures or travel documented.
The patient recovered from his mitral valve repair, had stopped anticoagulation after 6 weeks, and had returned to walking and/or running 3–5 miles per day. A transthoracic echocardiogram that was done approximately 2 months postoperatively demonstrated a normal functioning valve, with only trace regurgitation.
He was initially treated with symptomatic pain relief with hydrocodone-acetaminophen but had no improvement in the left popliteal fossa pain and was therefore referred to an orthopedic provider. A plain radiograph demonstrated Baker's cyst and he was treated with a cortisone injection. Due to persistence of symptoms, he was subsequently evaluated for possible deep venous thrombosis via venous ultrasound which indicated a left popliteal thrombus and aneurysm. As a result of this finding, he was admitted to an outside hospital for further evaluation.
At the outside facility, he underwent MRI of the left knee, CT angiogram with bilateral extremity runoff, and transthoracic echocardiogram. These studies revealed left popliteal aneurysm with occlusive eccentric thrombus and incomplete clot of a 
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's FeverPAIN score? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["A 65-year-old male marathon runner presented to a primary care physician with abrupt onset of posterior left knee pain that began two days before. There had been no injury associated with the pain. )
      -> 1.0 [$0.0017]
  RESULT: predicted=1.0, expected=2.0, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.8486: (calculator_name=Delta Gap, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: The proband was a grossly nondysmorphic 2-year-old female, height at the 53rd percentile and weight at the 56th percentile, daughter of a consanguineous union who was born at full term by normal standard vaginal delivery and presented with dehydration and acidosis precipitated by minor illnesses. At 21 months of age, the patient presented to the emergency room with a 1-day history of fever, rhinorrhea, foul-smelling urine, and decreased oral intake and was found to be Influenza B positive. Of note, the parents denied history of diarrhea. Initial vital signs in the emergency department were normal for age and included heart rate of 140 beats/min, respiratory rate of 26 breaths/min, and blood pressure of 86/58 mmHg. Physical exam was notable only for rhinorrhea, and no increased work of breathing was noted. Initial labs were significant for an extremely low serum tCO2 at 7 mmol/L. Serum sodium was 129 mmol/L (reference range: 136–145), potassium was 3.2 mmol/L (reference range: 3.5–5.1), chloride was 111 mmol/L (reference range: 98–108), blood urea nitrogen was 14 mg/dL (reference range: 6–23), serum creatinine was 0.32 mg/dL (reference range: 0.24–0.41), serum calcium level was 8.6 mg/dL (reference range: 8.6–10.3), and serum magnesium level was 1.9 mg/dL (reference range: 1.6–2.3). Intravenous hydration was initiated. In addition, urinalysis revealed a pH of 6.0, specific gravity of 1.018 mOsm/kg, ketones at 80 mg/dL, and 30 mg/dL of protein. Urine was negative for blood, leukocyte esterase, and nitrites. A complete blood count revealed a normal white blood count at 12.82 × 103/mcL and differential was notable for 15% bands. Chest X-ray was normal. The patient was hospitalized for continued intravenous hydration and noted to have a persistent metabolic acidosis despite aggressive hydration, improved appetite, and resolution of symptoms. During the course of the hospitalization, urine electrolytes were obtained, which included a urine calcium:creatinine ratio of 0.06
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's delta gap in mEq/L? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['The proband was a grossly nondysmorphic 2-year-old female, height at the 53rd percentile and weight at the 56th percentile, daughter of a consanguineous union who was born at full term by normal sta)
      -> 6.0 [$0.0020]
  RESULT: predicted=6.0, expected=-1.0, absolute_error=7.0

--- Case train.9685: (calculator_name=Glasgow-Blatchford Bleeding Score (GBS), category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 65-year-old retired machinist arrived at the emergency department by private vehicle at 04:30 after passing two toilets full of tar-black, glistening stool that clung stubbornly to the porcelain and stained the water a deep ink color beginning late the previous evening; he described an accompanying acrid, metallic odor that lingered in the bathroom and said he needed to flush repeatedly to clear the bowl. He has a twelve-year history of chronic hepatitis C genotype 1b acquired during military service and completed a direct-acting antiviral regimen three years ago, but follow-up imaging six months earlier still showed nodular liver morphology with mild portal venous enlargement and platelets in the 130 × 10⁹/L range; he takes nadolol 40 mg nightly as secondary prophylaxis after an episode of esophageal variceal bleeding two years prior, but he has not required lactulose, diuretics, or paracentesis and has never developed confusion or ascites. He denies alcohol since 2017, never used intravenous drugs, and quit a one-pack-per-day cigarette habit five years ago; medications otherwise include rosuvastatin 10 mg daily for dyslipidemia and a multivitamin, with no NSAIDs, aspirin, anticoagulants, or corticosteroids. He awoke at 23:00 with crampy mid-epigastric pressure and nausea but no vomiting; there was no hematemesis, no chest discomfort, no dyspnea, and at no point did his vision dim or the room spin, nor did he feel as though he might collapse. His last normal brown bowel movement had been the morning prior, and he recalls no recent change in diet, travel, antibiotic use, or abdominal trauma. Family history is relevant for a brother who required liver transplantation for hepatitis B–related cirrhosis; there is no known coagulopathy, coronary disease, or inflammatory bowel disease among relatives. Review of systems is negative for fevers, chills, night sweats, pruritus, jaundice beyond his baseline faint scleral tint, peripheral edema, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturna
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Glasgow-Blatchford Bleeding score? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 65-year-old retired machinist arrived at the emergency department by private vehicle at 04:30 after passing two toilets full of tar-black, glistening stool that clung stubbornly to the porcelain a)
      -> 11.0 [$0.0018]
  RESULT: predicted=11.0, expected=9.0, absolute_error=2.0

--- Case train.10233: (calculator_name=Framingham Risk Score for Hard Coronary Heart Disease, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 78-year-old woman arrived to the community health center mid-afternoon for her annual evaluation, timing the appointment between a morning watercolor class at the senior-arts cooperative and an evening rehearsal with her church choir; she walked briskly from the parking lot carrying a reusable canvas tote filled with recipe magazines and declined wheelchair assistance, stating she had spent the previous weekend trimming hedges without getting winded, dizzy, or experiencing any pressure in her chest, arms, jaw, or epigastrium. Her medical chart listed longstanding elevation of arterial pressure discovered at a pharmacy kiosk twelve years ago; after several months of salt restriction and daily neighborhood strolls failed to keep readings below goal, her primary clinician had initiated a low-dose calcium-channel antagonist, later adding a thiazide diuretic when home cuffs continued to record upper-140s in the late afternoon. She renews both prescriptions every ninety days at the same independent drugstore, organizes them into a seven-day dispenser beside her stovetop kettle, and reports only occasional ankle fullness on hotter days, relieved by elevating her legs. She has never been told she suffered a heart attack, undergone catheterization, received a stent, or been hospitalized for heart failure, stroke, or transient neurologic episodes, and review of previous outpatient laboratory portals revealed fasting plasma glucose values ranging from 88 to 96 mg/dL without any clinician recommending glucometer checks or hemoglobin A1c monitoring. Surgical history is limited to a remote hysterectomy for fibroids at 52 and uncomplicated cataract extraction in the left eye two years ago. The family narrative notes that her mother passed from pneumonia at 91 and her father at 87 from renal failure; neither parent nor any of four siblings experienced a myocardial infarction before age 70. She insists she never cared for cigarettes, recalling that even sitting near the designated
  Input arg 1: Based on the Framingham Risk Score for Hard Coronary Heart Disease, what is the likelihood of 10-year risk of MI or death for this patient? Please return your answer as a percentage value. You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 78-year-old woman arrived to the community health center mid-afternoon for her annual evaluation, timing the appointment between a morning watercolor class at the senior-arts cooperative and an ev)
      -> 20.0 [$0.0015]
  RESULT: predicted=20.0, expected=7.426, absolute_error=12.574

--- Case train.9082: (calculator_name=Estimated Due Date, category=date, output_type=date) ---
  Input arg 0: The patient's last menstrual period was on 02/18/2005. Her cycle length is 27 days.
  Input arg 1: Using Naegele's Rule for estimated due date based on the last menstrual period and cycle length, what is the the patient's estimated due date? Your response should be in the format of M/D/Y (ie 08/31/2023, 07/03/2000) with just the date and no other text.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["The patient's last menstrual period was on 02/18/2005. Her cycle length is 27 days.", "Using Naegele's Rule for estimated due date based on the last menstrual period and cycle length, what is the th)
      -> 11242005.0 [$0.0009]
  RESULT: predicted=11242005.0, expected=11/24/2005, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.10494: (calculator_name=APACHE II Score, category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 69-year-old man who carries a long-standing diagnosis of diabetic nephropathy with a baseline serum creatinine in the upper 1 mg/dL range, along with hypertension and coronary artery disease treated with percutaneous stenting five years earlier, was brought to the emergency department from an assisted-living facility after staff noticed a sudden onset of rigors, productive cough with yellow-green sputum, and increasing shortness of breath over the preceding twelve hours; he had been fully vaccinated against influenza and pneumococcus, had not received corticosteroids or chemotherapy, and had never undergone solid-organ or stem-cell transplantation. Paramedics reported an oxygen saturation in the mid-70s on ambient air, so they placed a Venturi mask delivering 50 % inspired oxygen for transport, started no intravenous fluids or antibiotics, and administered no analgesics, antipyretics, or bronchodilators en route. On arrival to the resuscitation bay—before any hospital-initiated therapy—he was seated upright, leaning forward, and speaking in short phrases between breaths. Initial vital signs recorded an oral temperature of 38.3 °C, radial pulse 102 beats per minute in a regular rhythm, respiratory rate 26 breaths per minute with moderate accessory muscle use, and noninvasive blood pressure 110/62 mm Hg confirmed by repeat cuff on the opposite arm. His skin was warm and diaphoretic; capillary refill was brisk. He opened his eyes to voice, was oriented to person and place but not date, and followed commands sluggishly, yielding a Glasgow Coma Score of 13 without sedatives or intoxicants on board. Conjunctivae were injected but not icteric, pupils were equal and briskly reactive, and extraocular movements were full. Neck veins were not distended. Cardiac auscultation revealed a soft S1, normal S2, and no murmurs, rubs, or gallops; distal pulses were bounding. Lung examination demonstrated diffuse coarse crackles over the right middle and lower fields and diminished br
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's APACHE II score?
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 69-year-old man who carries a long-standing diagnosis of diabetic nephropathy with a baseline serum creatinine in the upper 1 mg/dL range, along with hypertension and coronary artery disease treat)
      -> 17.0 [$0.0015]
  RESULT: predicted=17.0, expected=13.0, absolute_error=4.0

--- Case train.10276: (calculator_name=Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI), category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 48-year-old man arrived to the combined pulmonary–rheumatology follow-up clinic this morning at the request of his occupational medicine physician for a comprehensive status review before he returns to his seasonal post as a helicopter mechanic for a forestry service. Seven years ago he began experiencing progressive exertional shortness of breath and a daily morning cough productive of scant white sputum; spirometry at that time demonstrated an FEV1/FVC ratio of 58 % with only a 4 % rise after bronchodilator, and high-resolution CT revealed centrilobular emphysematous changes confined to the upper lobes. Since then he has used a long-acting muscarinic antagonist inhaler every morning, a combination inhaled corticosteroid–long-acting beta agonist twice daily, and albuterol as needed—typically three rescue puffs per week. He reports no episodes of respiratory failure, nocturnal ventilation, or hospital admissions for flare-ups, though he was treated with a five-day prednisone burst last winter during an influenza infection. He smoked a pack a day from age 18 to 40 and stopped after his youngest child was born; he denies marijuana or vaping exposure. In addition, he carries a diagnosis of seropositive rheumatoid arthritis first recognized five years ago when he developed symmetrical swelling and morning stiffness in the metacarpophalangeal joints; radiographs already showed marginal erosions of the second and third MCPs. He self-administers methotrexate 20 mg subcutaneously each week and takes hydroxychloroquine 200 mg twice daily, with good control of joint pain and no extra-articular nodules, vasculitis, or ocular inflammation. He performs overhead mechanical tasks for several hours at a stretch without difficulty but notes occasional grip weakness after prolonged work. Three years ago, during a routine wellness examination, fasting plasma glucose was 129 mg/dL and hemoglobin A1c 6.4 %; subsequent dietary counseling plus a structured exercise program led to weight
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI)? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 48-year-old man arrived to the combined pulmonary–rheumatology follow-up clinic this morning at the request of his occupational medicine physician for a comprehensive status review before he retur)
      -> 2.0 [$0.0016]
  RESULT: predicted=2.0, expected=4.0, absolute_error=2.0

--- Case train.9295: (calculator_name=Estimated of Conception, category=date, output_type=date) ---
  Input arg 0: The patient's last menstrual period was on 06/17/2015.
  Input arg 1: Based on the patient's last menstrual period, what is the the patient's estimated date of conception? Your answer should be in the format of M/D/Y (ie 08/31/2023, 07/03/2000) with just the date and not other text.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["The patient's last menstrual period was on 06/17/2015.", "Based on the patient's last menstrual period, what is the the patient's estimated date of conception? Your answer should be in the format of)
      -> 7012015.0 [$0.0009]
  RESULT: predicted=7012015.0, expected=07/01/2015, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.9880: (calculator_name=PSI Score: Pneumonia Severity Index for CAP, category=severity, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 78-year-old man was transferred to the emergency department from the skilled nursing wing of an assisted-living campus after staff observed a two-day history of increasing cough that had progressed from scant clear sputum to thicker yellow expectoration, accompanied by exertional dyspnea that now limited him to a few steps with his walker before needing to rest. Earlier that morning the facility nurse recorded an oral temperature of 37.8 °C and noted that the patient’s breathing appeared more labored during morning hygiene, prompting notification of the covering physician and transport for further evaluation. The patient reports that overnight he felt “feverish and chilled,” slept poorly because of the cough, and experienced mild right-sided pleuritic chest discomfort but denies any confusion, dizziness, syncope, or focal neurologic symptoms; during the interview he is alert, oriented to person, place, and date, and engages appropriately with the examiner. His past medical history is notable for well-compensated chronic hepatitis C–related cirrhosis diagnosed a decade ago, hypertension controlled with a low-dose thiazide, and osteoarthritis of both knees; he has never required dialysis, and review of prior laboratory results sent from his primary clinic shows stable creatinine values around 0.9 mg/dL over the past several years. He has no record of myocardial infarction, angina, or previously documented ventricular dysfunction; his only cardiovascular medication is hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg daily. Socially, he quit smoking three decades ago, drinks no alcohol since his liver diagnosis, and has not traveled outside the county in years. Vaccination chart from the facility confirms pneumococcal immunization within the past five years and influenza inoculation for the current season. He takes no glucocorticoids or immunosuppressants and has not been on antibiotics during the current illness. Upon arrival to triage he is seated upright but appears mildly tachypneic w
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Pneumonia Severity Index (PSI)? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 78-year-old man was transferred to the emergency department from the skilled nursing wing of an assisted-living campus after staff observed a two-day history of increasing cough that had progresse)
      -> 118.0 [$0.0015]
  RESULT: predicted=118.0, expected=128.0, absolute_error=10.0

--- Case train.9405: (calculator_name=Estimated Gestational Age, category=date, output_type=date) ---
  Input arg 0: The patient's last menstrual period was on 01/12/2021. Today's date is 02/23/2021.
  Input arg 1: Based on the patient's last menstrual period, what is the patient's estimated gestational age? Your answer should be a tuple, specifying the number of weeks and days (i.e. (4 weeks, 3 days), (0 weeks, 5 days), (1 week, 5 days), (8 weeks, 0 days)).
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["The patient's last menstrual period was on 01/12/2021. Today's date is 02/23/2021.", "Based on the patient's last menstrual period, what is the patient's estimated gestational age? Your answer shoul)
      -> 6.0 [$0.0008]
  RESULT: predicted=6.0, expected=('6 weeks', '0 days'), absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.4425: (calculator_name=Centor Score (Modified/McIsaac) for Strep Pharyngitis, category=severity, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: The index case, 36 year old man, lived with his wife, two daughters and his son. He presented to a clinic with fever (37.8°C) and cough on April 16. He felt well after taking compound paracetamol tablets (II), Ibuprofen Tablets and Radix Isatidis on April 17. On April 18, he continued fever and developed pneumonia and was admitted to Zaozhuang City Hospital on April 21. Due to progressive respiratory distress and suspicion of impending acute respiratory distress syndrome, he was transferred to intensive care unit on the day of admission. Bilateral ground-glass opacities and pulmonary lesions were observed on chest radiography (Figure ). The index patient recovered and was discharged on May 16. The positive throat-swab collected on April 21 was confirmed by Chinese Center for disease Control and Prevention on April 23 and virus was A/Shandong/01/2013(H7N9) (SD/01). The antibody titers was 1:80 for the serum sample collected on May 21st compared with 1:5 on April 24 by the micro-neutralization assay [].
The second case was the index patient’s 4 years old son. He began to have fever (37.8°C) and cough on April 14. He was given domiciliary care before April 18. From April 18 to 20, he was treated for common cold at the clinic with his father and recovered. On 21st April, when the index case was hospitalized, the boy separated with him and was under medical observation till April 27 when the fever (38.3°C) and cough started again. After taking antipyretic granules and cephalosporin on the morning, the temperature decreased to 37°C in the afternoon. On 28th morning, he was hospitalized with fever (37.2°C) and was treated with oseltamivir (5 mg). Initial testing identified leucopenia and multiple patchy shadows in the lungs bilaterally. He was discharged on May 6. The throat swab collected on April 23 was negative for H7N9. On April 27, PCR test from throat swabs was H7N9 positive and virus was A/Shandong/0068A/2013(H7N9) (SD/0068A). The antibody titers was 1:20 for the se
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Centor Score? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['The index case, 36 year old man, lived with his wife, two daughters and his son. He presented to a clinic with fever (37.8°C) and cough on April 16. He felt well after taking compound paracetamol ta)
      -> 3.0 [$0.0020]
  RESULT: predicted=3.0, expected=0.0, absolute_error=3.0

--- Case train.6383: (calculator_name=LDL Calculated, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: The 26-year-old Chinese lady was an immigrant from the Inner Mongolia and incidentally found in the 8th week of pregnancy. She had being lived on cow milk products for 24 years in Inner Mongolia before she married a man in Guilin. As an aboriginal inhabitant, fresh milk and milk products were her favorite. She had 1-year history of renal biopsy-proven MGN with persistent proteinuria (2.5–5.5 g/24 hours). The lady was admitted to the Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical University in March 2014.
The patient was first admitted to the People's Hospital of Guilin with complaints of generalized edema in her face and legs in March 2013. No other abnormalities had previously been detected on her annual physical examinations.
The results of physical examination revealed normal, except for 2+ pitting pretibial edema and lower eyelids swelling. Laboratory measurements were as follows: total serum protein, 44.8 g/L (normal 60–80 g/L); albumin, 24.6 g/L (normal 35–50 g/L); total cholesterol, 7.91 mmol/L (normal 3.1–6.0 mmol/L), triglycerides, 1.22 mmol/L (normal 0.48–1.6 mmol/L), high-density lipoprotein, 1.49 mmol/L (normal 1.0–1.9 mmol/L); and low-density lipoprotein, 4.43 mmol/L (normal 2.1–3.36 mmol/L). The levels of liver enzymes, blood electrolytes, and the results of blood routine examination were basically within the normal ranges. Urinalysis showed the presence of urine dipstick protein of 3+, 24-hour urine protein level of 5.5 g/day (normal 0.04–0.23), blood urea nitrogen of 2.65 mmol/L (normal 3.2–7.5 mmol/L), and creatinine of 55.5 μmol/L (normal 44–115 μmol/L).
She was hospitalized to have percutaneous kidney biopsy performed on the 21st March, 2013. Renal tissues were obtained by core needle biopsy under ultrasound control on the basis of written informed consent from the patient. One third each of the renal biopsy specimen was processed for histochemical stains (HE, periodic acid-Schiff [PAS], periodic Schiff-methenamine, and Masson trichrome) with light microsc
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's LDL cholestrol concentration? Please outuput your answer in terms of mg/dL. You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["The 26-year-old Chinese lady was an immigrant from the Inner Mongolia and incidentally found in the 8th week of pregnancy. She had being lived on cow milk products for 24 years in Inner Mongolia bef)
      -> 171.31 [$0.0012]
  RESULT: predicted=171.31, expected=227.2154, absolute_error=55.905399999999986

--- Case train.9201: (calculator_name=Morphine Milligram Equivalents (MME) Calculator, category=dosage, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A patient takes 20 mg of TraMADol 1 time a day and 20 mg of HYDROmorphone 1 time a day.
  Input arg 1: Based on the number of doses per day and the quantity of different doses, what is the patient's daily Morphine Miligram Equivalents (MME)?
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A patient takes 20 mg of TraMADol 1 time a day and 20 mg of HYDROmorphone 1 time a day.', "Based on the number of doses per day and the quantity of different doses, what is the patient's daily Morph)
      -> 82.0 [$0.0009]
  RESULT: predicted=82.0, expected=104.0, absolute_error=22.0

--- Case train.10172: (calculator_name=MELD Na (UNOS/OPTN), category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 47-year-old woman with a five-year history of biopsy-proven cirrhosis from non-alcoholic steatohepatitis was transferred this morning from a regional interventional radiology unit to our hepatology service for continued monitoring after placement of a covered 10-mm transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt forty-eight hours earlier for medically refractory tense ascites and recurrent hydrothorax that had required thoracentesis every two weeks. According to the procedural note faxed with her chart, the stent was deployed without immediate complication and portal pressures fell from 22 mm Hg to 9 mm Hg; no vasoactive drugs, albumin boluses, or antibiotic prophylaxis were administered post-procedure because her hemodynamics were stable and the outside team wanted any early metabolic derangements to be captured unaltered on arrival at a tertiary center. She has never undergone chronic or intermittent renal replacement therapy, and inspection on the ward today revealed no tunneled catheters, arteriovenous fistulas, or recent puncture sites in the neck, chest, or groins. Home medications before the TIPS consisted of spironolactone 100 mg and furosemide 40 mg each morning, lactulose 30 mL three times daily (held since yesterday because of increasing bloating), and a low-dose non-selective beta-blocker that was discontinued the evening before the intervention; she does not take warfarin, direct oral anticoagulants, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or herbal preparations. Alcohol use is limited to an occasional glass of wine at holidays, and she has no history of viral hepatitis, diabetes, or systemic hypertension. Baseline outpatient laboratory records from one month ago showed total bilirubin 1.9 mg/dL, international normalized ratio 1.8, serum sodium 135 mmol/L, and serum creatinine 92 µmol/L; there have been no prior episodes of hepatic encephalopathy or variceal bleeding. Ten minutes after stretcher transfer to our step-down unit this morning—and purposefull
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's MELD Na score? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 47-year-old woman with a five-year history of biopsy-proven cirrhosis from non-alcoholic steatohepatitis was transferred this morning from a regional interventional radiology unit to our hepatolog)
      -> 18.0 [$0.0015]
  RESULT: predicted=18.0, expected=27.0, absolute_error=9.0

--- Case train.6593: (calculator_name=PERC Rule for Pulmonary Embolism, category=diagnosis, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: The subject of this report is a 29 year old male, US citizen of Palestinian descent, who works full-time as a biomedical research technician. His health history is unremarkable, except for the fact that at age 16 he was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis and primary sclerosing cholangitis. Since then, he has been treated successfully with mesalamine (1.2 g, 2 times per day), azathioprine (50 mg, 3 times per day), and ursidiol (300 mg, 2 times per day). The subject has been able to live an active lifestyle and participate in a variety of sports including running, weightlifting, basketball, and baseball. The subject denies any history of smoking or use of alcohol, opioids, or illicit drugs. On April 22, 2020, the subject's father, who lives in the same house as the subject, and works for a major shipping company, was diagnosed with COVID-19. This was about 2 months after the first case of COVID had been confirmed in his state of residence, which was one of the early active zones of COVID-19 transmission in the US. On April 25, the patient began to experience general malaise and fatigue. Over the next 24 h, the symptoms worsened to include severe fatigue and weakness, loss of appetite, tiredness, slight dry cough, body aches, muscle pain, loss of taste and smell, sore throat and fever. The patient was then seen by his general practice physician. Vital signs at the time of examination were BP 110/72, pulse 97 BPM, respiration 14 per minute, oxygen saturation 98%, and body temperature 101.7°F. The patient was given a naso-pharyngeal swab, real-time RT-PCR test [COBAS (R) SARS-COV-@ test, Labcorp Laboratories, South Bend, IN] that confirmed a diagnosis of COVID-19. In compliance with standard medical practice standards, the patient was ordered to self-isolate and to start a 5-day course of azithromycin (250 mg, daily), and to also take 1 g of paracetamol (acetaminophen) every 6 h for treatment of pain and fever. Despite good adherence to the recommended treatment, the symp
  Input arg 1: What are the number of criteria met for the PERC Rule for Pulmonary Embolism (PE)? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["The subject of this report is a 29 year old male, US citizen of Palestinian descent, who works full-time as a biomedical research technician. His health history is unremarkable, except for the fact )
      -> 0.0 [$0.0016]
  RESULT: predicted=0.0, expected=1.0, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.9518: (calculator_name=Wells' Criteria for DVT, category=risk, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 42-year-old woman presented to the walk-in assessment area late this afternoon complaining that her right calf had “ballooned and felt bruised inside” since finishing a weekend trail-running relay forty-eight hours ago. She reports she ran the steep downhill segment, during which she slipped on loose gravel and felt a sudden twinge in the upper portion of the gastrocnemius but remained able to jog intermittently to the exchange station. Over the subsequent day she noted progressive fullness in the mid-calf and increasing discomfort on plantarflexion yet denies any sharp groin pain, thigh tightness, or warmth tracking along the inner leg. She has continued normal activities, including teaching two high-school science classes this morning, climbing stairs at work, and walking her dog in the evening; she has not been confined to bed, used crutches, or worn braces, splints, or casts. Past medical history is notable only for seasonal asthma well controlled with as-needed albuterol; she has never experienced thromboembolic disease, stroke, transient ischemic attack, or peripheral arterial events. She takes a combined vitamin D/calcium supplement daily and intermittent ibuprofen after long runs but no estrogen-containing contraception, corticosteroids, or anticoagulants. There is no personal or family history of malignancy, hereditary thrombophilia, inflammatory bowel disease, nephrotic syndrome, or congestive heart failure. She has never undergone orthopedic or abdominal operations; her last procedure was a wisdom-tooth extraction four years earlier. She denies recent long-haul flights, automobile trips beyond one hour, hormone injections, or central venous catheter placement. She does not smoke, enjoys one glass of wine with weekend dinners, and denies illicit drug use. Review of systems is negative for fever, chills, night sweats, unexplained weight loss, rash, erythema, skin breaks, ulcerations, numbness, weakness, chest pain, dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis, palpitations
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's score of Wells' criteria for Deep Vein Thrombosis? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 42-year-old woman presented to the walk-in assessment area late this afternoon complaining that her right calf had “ballooned and felt bruised inside” since finishing a weekend trail-running relay)
      -> -1.0 [$0.0015]
  RESULT: predicted=-1.0, expected=0.0, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.10435: (calculator_name=Revised Cardiac Risk Index for Pre-Operative Risk, category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 58-year-old man presented this afternoon to the peri-anesthesia medicine service for evaluation four days prior to a planned outpatient laparoscopic ventral incisional hernia repair with mesh reinforcement; the general surgery team anticipates three ports, less than 250 mL blood loss, and same-day discharge barring unexpected findings. He parked in the hospital garage and walked the two blocks of the skyway slowly, pausing once on the final ramp because of mild breathlessness, but he spoke in full sentences while registering. Over the past year he has been living with chronic systolic pump dysfunction diagnosed after a hospitalization twelve months ago for lower-extremity swelling and paroxysmal nocturnal shortness of breath; that admission included intravenous loop diuretics and an echocardiogram showing a left ventricular ejection fraction of 35 % with concentric remodeling. Since discharge he has adhered to carvedilol 25 mg twice daily, sacubitril-valsartan 49/51 mg every morning, spironolactone 25 mg nightly, and torsemide 10 mg each sunrise, checks his weight daily, and follows a 2-gram sodium diet arranged by heart-failure nursing. He reports New York Heart Association class II symptoms: he climbs one flight of stairs at home with a brief rest at the landing, sleeps on two pillows to avoid coughing spells, and notes trace ankle puffiness by evening that recedes overnight. He has not required intravenous diuretics, urgent clinic “tune-ups,” or emergency visits since that initial episode and denies current orthopnea, presyncope, palpitations, or chest discomfort. Type 2 diabetes mellitus was first identified seventeen years ago; progressive fasting hyperglycemia prompted transition from oral agents to injectables three years back, and he now administers insulin glargine 32 units at bedtime together with insulin lispro before meals according to a carbohydrate ratio of 1 unit per 12 g and a correction factor of 1 unit for every 30 mg/dL above 150. His glucometer
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's score of the Revised Cardiac Risk Index for Pre-Operative Risk? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 58-year-old man presented this afternoon to the peri-anesthesia medicine service for evaluation four days prior to a planned outpatient laparoscopic ventral incisional hernia repair with mesh rein)
      -> 3.0 [$0.0016]
  RESULT: predicted=3.0, expected=2.0, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.3017: (calculator_name=Wells' Criteria for Pulmonary Embolism, category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 74-year-old Caucasian male presented to the ED with worsening shortness of breath and elevated blood pressure. On presentation, he was markedly tachypneic and in severe respiratory distress. Vital signs include an elevated blood pressure of 165/114 mmHg, a pulse of 122 beats per minute, a temperature of 99.1°F and a respiratory rate of 28/minute. On physical examination, the patient was in acute distress, diaphoretic, and using accessory muscles of respiration. Lung auscultation revealed diffuse rales. Regular rate and rhythm with no accessory heart sounds were appreciated on precordial auscultation. The patient was put on a non-rebreather mask with mild improvement in the respiratory status and subsequently intubated and transferred to the intensive care unit on mechanical ventilation.
The patient’s medical history was significant for obstructive sleep apnea with noncompliance to positive airway pressure therapy due to discomfort. He had grade 1 left ventricular diastolic dysfunction on an echocardiogram 8 months ago with normal biventricular size and function. He took a trip to Florida with his wife and noticed body aches, constant non-productive cough, headaches, fatigue, and fevers with a temperature of 101°F since his return 10 days prior. He reported sick contact at his vacation, which prompted him to get checked for viral pathogens and get a chest x-ray. The patient was diagnosed with COVID-19 8 days prior to presentation and was followed by the Cleveland Clinic’s distance health service with daily phone encounters while he was in isolation at home. His chest x-ray had shown left perihilar opacity and he was provided with doxycycline.
The differential diagnosis included viral pneumonia, bacterial pneumonia, PE, and COVID-19 acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
Laboratory work revealed hemoglobin of 17.3 g/dL, white blood cell count of 16,400/uL, elevated liver enzymes with ALT 336 U/L and AST 309U/L. C-reactive protein was elevated to 11.9 mg/dL, D-d
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's score of Wells' criteria for Pulmonary Embolism? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 74-year-old Caucasian male presented to the ED with worsening shortness of breath and elevated blood pressure. On presentation, he was markedly tachypneic and in severe respiratory distress. Vital)
      -> 7.5 [$0.0020]
  RESULT: predicted=7.5, expected=9.0, absolute_error=1.5

--- Case train.3241: (calculator_name=MDRD GFR Equation, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 64-year-old man with a history of hypertension, chronic kidney disease, and liver failure secondary to hepatitis C, with status post liver transplant 13 years priorly, was brought in by ambulance to the emergency department for acutely altered mental status. The patient had been in his usual state of health, until he told his family 3 hours before that he “felt sick.” The family incidentally found him on the floor, confused and lethargic, and immediately called the ambulance.
Upon arrival, the patient had a temperature of 96.4°F; pulse, 117 beats per minute; blood pressure, 151/93 mmHg; respiratory rate, 22 breaths per minute; and oxygen saturation of 100% on nonrebreather. The patient was known to have a history of recurrent episodes of hepatic encephalopathy, and his last episode of hepatic encephalopathy was in the prior 3 months, which was treated and controlled with lactulose. The patient's family stated that the patient had run out of lactulose 4 days before presentation. Other than lactulose, the patient was compliant with all of his home medications, including amlodipine, buproprion, cyclosporine, hydrocodone, lasix, methocarbamol, and ramipril. The patient had no known history of seizure, recent illness, brain trauma, or recent surgical procedures.
Physical examination showed a male in no acute distress with a Glasgow Coma Scale of 12 (eyes, 4; verbal, 3; motor, 5). There were no signs of trauma found on his body. His pupils were equally round and reactive to light, and his neck was supple and soft with a cervical collar in place. Cardiopulmonary examination was unremarkable except for tachycardia. Abdominal examination was unremarkable. Because he was not following commands, the neurologic examination was limited. However, the patient was able to move all extremities equally and pulses were distally equal to all extremities. There was no posturing or clonus noted, and Babinski was downgoing in both feet.
Fingerstick glucose level was 210 mg/dL and bedsid
  Input arg 1: Using the MDRD GFR Equation, what is the patient's Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) in terms of mL/min/1.73 m²? If the patient is black, please use the MDRD GFR Equation for Blacks. You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["A 64-year-old man with a history of hypertension, chronic kidney disease, and liver failure secondary to hepatitis C, with status post liver transplant 13 years priorly, was brought in by ambulance )
      -> 26.41 [$0.0015]
  RESULT: predicted=26.41, expected=35.86756, absolute_error=9.457559999999997

--- Case train.0443: (calculator_name=CKD-EPI Equations for Glomerular Filtration Rate, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 43-year-old man was diagnosed with familial ADPKD at the age of 34. His kidneys were bigger than normal and contained numerous cysts; he had no liver cysts and normal laboratory tests with slightly high Cr (1.1 mg/dL). Disease symptoms were controlled for 5 years with enalapril, amlodipine, and allopurinol. In December 2018, infinite bleeding renal cysts were detected, and Cr was 1.55 mg/dL. Due to the ADPKD rapid progression, tolvaptan was initiated on 4 May 2019 at the regular dose, 45-0-15. After 17 doses of treatment, blood tests revealed a 5–6 fold increase of CK (from 154 to 854 UI/mL) and a moderate increase in LDH (364 UI/L). Cr did not increase during this time, and the patient did not have symptoms. Tolvaptan was stopped, while other treatments continued, and CK and LDH (307UI/L) gradually recovered after 6 weeks.
Both patients suffered a dramatic CK elevation after receiving tolvaptan and neither showed symptoms. They had no history of CK elevation and reported not having taken any other drug, phytotherapy, or special diet and not having performed extreme exercise that could justify CK elevation []. The LDH increase was minor; however, it is usually high in ADPKD due to cyst breakage. In the absence of any other justification for CK elevation and since CK decreased after tolvaptan discontinuation, it is probable that tolvaptan caused CK elevation in both cases [] (Fig. ).
These are the first cases of tolvaptan-induced CK elevation reported. It is well-known that tolvaptan causes hepatotoxicity in ADPKD patients [] but not in other patients []. Since CK elevation is caused by muscle damage [], we hypothesize that tolvaptan might damage ADPKD patients’ myocytes and hepatocytes by the same mechanism, probably related with intracellular cAMP reduction. Since CK elevation might be underestimated in ADPKD patients receiving tolvaptan, we suggest that CK should be monitored in these patients.
  Input arg 1: Using the 2021 CKD-EPI Creatinine equation, what is the patient's Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) in terms of mL/min/1.73 m²? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 43-year-old man was diagnosed with familial ADPKD at the age of 34. His kidneys were bigger than normal and contained numerous cysts; he had no liver cysts and normal laboratory tests with slightl)
      -> 84.19 [$0.0013]
  RESULT: predicted=84.19, expected=56.60281, absolute_error=27.58719

--- Case train.7090: (calculator_name=QTc Rautaharju Calculator, category=physical, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A patient has a heart rate of 156 bpm and a QT interval of 453 msec.
  Input arg 1: Using the Rautaharju Formula for corrected QT interval, what is the patient's corrected QT interval in terms of msec?
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A patient has a heart rate of 156 bpm and a QT interval of 453 msec.', "Using the Rautaharju Formula for corrected QT interval, what is the patient's corrected QT interval in terms of msec?"])
      -> 548.0 [$0.0009]
  RESULT: predicted=548.0, expected=694.6, absolute_error=146.60000000000002

--- Case train.6754: (calculator_name=SIRS Criteria, category=diagnosis, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 14-month-old Congolese male child with oculocutaneous albinism visited the Mbujimayi pediatric clinic with fever and fatigue. He was originally from Kasai Oriental, a region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. He was the youngest in a family of five children, three of whom had oculocutaneous albinism. He himself has sickle cell disease and the rest of the siblings have a sickle cell trait (Fig. ). He was born at term with a birth weight of 3000 g, and presented with spontaneously resolutive neonatal jaundice. The other significant history was episodes of fever with a monthly frequency of two episodes. No vaso-occlusive crisis was clearly diagnosed, in particular no dactylitis episode was reported. The vaccination schedule according to the expanded program of immunization in the DRC was respected with Bacille Calmette et Guérin (BCG) vaccine against tuberculosis; diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DTP) vaccine; oral polio vaccine (OPV) against polio; hepatitis B and haemophilus influenzae vaccine (HepB-HiB1); rotavirus vaccine (Rotasiil1); pneumococcal vaccine (Prevenar); measles vaccine (VAR); and yellow fever vaccine (AAV). The patient has never been hospitalized and has always been treated on an outpatient basis in health centers during febrile episodes such as malaria or typhoid fever. The siblings reported no particular clinical history.
His parents are not albinos and have no specific medical history; they never benefited from a prenuptial test. They reported their fear of the judgment of others because they have albino children when they are not affected.
The patient was wide awake with good contact and interaction. Generalized pallor was noted with subicteric conjunctivae, and the irises were bluish gray and translucent, thus appearing red with nystagmus (Fig. ). The patient’s skin was pinkish white, depigmented, without any particular lesions or bruises.
On physical examination, weight and height were at the third and tenth percentile for age, respect
  Input arg 1: What are the number of SIRS critiera met by the patient? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 14-month-old Congolese male child with oculocutaneous albinism visited the Mbujimayi pediatric clinic with fever and fatigue. He was originally from Kasai Oriental, a region of the Democratic Repu)
      -> 2.0 [$0.0014]
  RESULT: predicted=2.0, expected=3.0, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.9450: (calculator_name=Child-Pugh Score for Cirrhosis Mortality, category=severity, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 66-year-old man with a documented twelve-year history of cirrhosis that developed after three decades of heavy ethanol consumption, now abstinent for eight years, arrived to the outpatient hepatology suite for his scheduled mid-year evaluation after noticing his belt notch creeping outward by one hole over the preceding month and experiencing a vague sensation of abdominal “heaviness” when tying his shoes; he specifically denied overt bloating that impaired breathing, swelling above the ankles, early satiety that curtailed meals, gastrointestinal bleeding, dark or pale stools, itching, confusion, daytime somnolence, handwriting changes, or tremor while holding utensils. Past medical history included well-controlled type 2 diabetes on metformin 1000 mg twice daily, hyperlipidemia treated with atorvastatin 20 mg nightly, and remote peptic ulcer disease for which he took no current acid suppression. Upper endoscopy three years earlier demonstrated small varices requiring no endoscopic therapy, and a transient elastography performed six months prior showed advanced stiffness consistent with portal hypertension. He had never undergone paracentesis or transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt placement and had not required hospitalization since an episode of community-acquired pneumonia two winters ago. Surgical history was limited to laparoscopic cholecystectomy in his forties. He denied tobacco use, illicit drug exposure, or herbal supplement ingestion, reported a coffee habit of two cups daily, and followed a moderate-sodium diet recommended by a nutritionist. Family history featured a father with myocardial infarction at 70 and a mother with osteoarthritis; no relatives were known to have chronic liver disease. Review of systems was negative for fever, chills, chest pain, dyspnea, weight change exceeding one kilogram, muscle cramps, tingling, or easy bruising. On arrival he walked briskly from the waiting area, conversed clearly, and recited details of a recent 
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Child-Pugh Score? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 66-year-old man with a documented twelve-year history of cirrhosis that developed after three decades of heavy ethanol consumption, now abstinent for eight years, arrived to the outpatient hepatol)
      -> 8.0 [$0.0015]
  RESULT: predicted=8.0, expected=7.0, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.4226: (calculator_name=HEART Score for Major Cardiac Events, category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 44-year-old woman was referred by her gastrointestinal surgeon to the emergency room (ER) because of multiple episodes of chest pain. She was, like her mother, known with ADPKD as well as polycystic liver disease, without (intracranial) aneurysms. Two months earlier, a liver transplantation had been performed because of dyspnoea caused by the liver cysts. She was under treatment with antirejection medication (tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, and steroids that were tapered recently). She did not smoke and there were no other cardiovascular risk factors but stress. The chest pain started during sleep, radiated to the left arm and subsided spontaneously after 5 min. The electrocardiogram (ECG) in the ER showed a normal sinus rhythm without ST segment or T-wave abnormalities. Patient was afebrile, with a blood pressure of 137/74 mmHg and a regular pulse of 77 b.p.m. On auscultation heart sounds were normal and lungs were clear. There was no peripheral oedema and peripheral pulsations were normal. Chest X-ray was normal. Blood samples showed a chronic but stable kidney disease (eGFR 36 mL/min/1.73 m2), absence of inflammation or anaemia. High-sensitive troponin T-level was significantly elevated (53 pg/mL) but showed no significant evolution after 3 h. A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) demonstrated a non-dilated ventricle (end-diastolic diameter 41 mm) with mild septal hypertrophy (14 mm), normal regional contractility, a preserved left ventricular (LV) systolic function and absence of significant valvulopathy. A coronary angiography was performed and showed diffuse narrowing of the distal left anterior descending artery (LAD) with ‘stick insect’ aspect, compatible with a SCAD Type 2 with preserved distal flow (). The patient was admitted to the intensive cardiac care unit for further observation and treatment. Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with clopidogrel and aspirin was started, as well as pravastatin and a low dose of bisoprolol. During the following days, 
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's score of the HEART Score? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 44-year-old woman was referred by her gastrointestinal surgeon to the emergency room (ER) because of multiple episodes of chest pain. She was, like her mother, known with ADPKD as well as polycyst)
      -> 3.0 [$0.0012]
  RESULT: predicted=3.0, expected=5.0, absolute_error=2.0

--- Case train.9123: (calculator_name=Steroid Conversion Calculator, category=dosage, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: Patient has taken 1.35 mg of Betamethasone IV.
  Input arg 1: Based on the patient's dose of Betamethasone IV, what is the equivalent dosage in mg of MethylPrednisoLONE IV?
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['Patient has taken 1.35 mg of Betamethasone IV.', "Based on the patient's dose of Betamethasone IV, what is the equivalent dosage in mg of MethylPrednisoLONE IV?"])
      -> 6.75 [$0.0009]
  RESULT: predicted=6.75, expected=7.1955, absolute_error=0.4455

--- Case train.9016: (calculator_name=Albumin Corrected Delta Ratio, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 40-year-old woman suffering from abdominal pain and diarrhea since September 1994 was admitted to another institution. She had undergone colonoscopic examination and endoscopy of the colon and histological examination showed chronic inflammatory bowel disease with signs of Crohns disease involving the entire colon and the terminal ileum. Differential therapeutic strategies, including corticosteroid, had improved the symptoms which were dominated by abdominal pain and bloody stools 5 times a day for 6 months. After stopping medication, including corticosteroid since Februrary 1995, she had experienced abdominal pain and bloody stool twice a day.
When she visited our institute in April of 1995 due to ineffective long-term treatment with corticosteroid, she presented with bloody stool twice a day and 7kg weight loss in a period of six months. Among her complaints were having diarrhea over 5 times a day and bloody stool twice a day. She also complained of dizziness, anorexia and general weakness of the body. Physical examination revealed a slightly slender female. Her blood pressure was 130/80mmHg, pulse rate 85/min, respiratory rate 20/min and body temperature 36.°C. There was no abnormal sound in the chest. Abdominal palpatation and percussion indicated a slightly painful abdomen and showed normal peristalsis, no superficial lymphadenopathy and no hepatospelomegaly. Bowel sounds were decreased.
The hematocrit was 38.6% and the white cell count was 7300/mm3, with 89% polymorphonuclear cells and 5% lymphocyte. The serum sodium was 138mEq/L, potassium 4.0mEq/L, chloride 99mEq/L, bicarbonate 23.2mEq/L. The results of liver function tests were as follows : protein 7.3g/dl, albumin 4.4g/dl, cholesterol 189mg/dl, bilirubin 0.6mg/dl, alkaline phosphatase 69U/L, AST 17U/L and ALT 13U/L. Urinalysis did not reveal any evidence of proteinuria. The result of a stool examination revealed positive occult blood. Anti-HIV was negative, findings on the chest radiograph and simple abd
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's albumin corrected delta ratio? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 40-year-old woman suffering from abdominal pain and diarrhea since September 1994 was admitted to another institution. She had undergone colonoscopic examination and endoscopy of the colon and his)
      -> 4.75 [$0.0023]
  RESULT: predicted=4.75, expected=3.5, absolute_error=1.25

--- Case train.6037: (calculator_name=Free Water Deficit, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 54-year-old man comes to the physician because of diarrhea that has become progressively worse over the past 4 months. He currently has 4–6 episodes of foul-smelling stools per day. Over the past 3 months, he has had fatigue and a 5-kg (11-lb) weight loss. He returned from Bangladesh 6 months ago after a year-long business assignment. He has osteoarthritis and hypertension. Current medications include amlodipine and naproxen. He appears pale and malnourished. His temperature is 37.3°C (99.1°F), pulse is 76/min, and blood pressure is 140/86 mm Hg. Examination shows pale conjunctivae and dry mucous membranes. Angular stomatitis and glossitis are present. The abdomen is distended but soft and nontender. Rectal examination shows no abnormalities. Laboratory studies show:
Hemoglobin 8.9 g/dL
Leukocyte count 4100/mm3
Platelet count 160,000/mm3
Mean corpuscular volume 110 μm3
Serum
Na+ 133 mEq/L
Cl- 98 mEq/l
K+ 3.3 mEq/L
Creatinine 1.1 mg/dL
IgA 250 mg/dL
Anti-tissue transglutaminase, IgA negative
Stool culture and studies for ova and parasites are negative. Test of the stool for occult blood is negative. Fecal fat content is 22 g/day (N < 7). Fecal lactoferrin is negative and elastase is within normal limits.
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's free water deficit in terms of kg? The desired serum sodium concentration is 140 mEq/L. You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 54-year-old man comes to the physician because of diarrhea that has become progressively worse over the past 4 months. He currently has 4–6 episodes of foul-smelling stools per day. Over the past )
      -> -2.1 [$0.0011]
  RESULT: predicted=-2.1, expected=-0.15, absolute_error=1.9500000000000002

--- Case train.9999: (calculator_name=Caprini Score for Venous Thromboembolism (2005), category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: He has never been told he carries antiphospholipid antibodies, and prior coagulation panels—including a screen done before his liver resection—were negative for such markers. His gastroenterology records are silent for Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis, and pulmonary clinic notes confirm that he has no chronic obstructive lung disease. He has never sustained a myocardial infarction, nor has he experienced any form of multisystem traumatic injury.
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Caprini Score for Venous Thromboembolism? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['He has never been told he carries antiphospholipid antibodies, and prior coagulation panels—including a screen done before his liver resection—were negative for such markers. His gastroenterology re)
      -> 0.0 [$0.0009]
  RESULT: predicted=0.0, expected=11.0, absolute_error=11.0

--- Case train.5892: (calculator_name=FeverPAIN Score for Strep Pharyngitis, category=diagnosis, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 37-year-old Indian woman presented to our university based, academic emergency department, with a chief complaint of fever of one-week duration. The patient reported the fever was persistent and fluctuated between 102 and 103 degrees Fahrenheit. The elevated temperatures were associated with shaking chills and diffuse myalgias. Review of systems was otherwise unremarkable. She denied any recent change in her appetite or weight.
The patient had a past medical history significant for Systemic Lupus Erythematosis (SLE) that was diagnosed at age 16. She received a cadaveric renal transplant ten years prior to admission secondary to Lupus nephropathy. Over the past year, the patient had suffered from chronic rejection and was on the renal transplant list for a second time. Additional past medical history includes hypertension, chronic Molluscum contagiosum on the lower extremities, thyroid cancer status post total thyroidectomy, and renal cell carcinoma status post right native nephrectomy.
Medications included tacrolimus 2 milligrams twice daily, prednisone 5 milligrams daily, darbepoetin alfa 60 milligrams subcutaneously weekly, atenolol 25 milligrams daily, amlodipine 5 milligrams daily, calcitriol 0.25 micrograms daily, levothyroxine 100 micrograms daily, iron supplementation, and a daily multivitamin. Mycophenolate mofetil was recently stopped secondary to epistaxis and gingival bleeding. The patient denied any known drug allergies and was not taking any over the counter medications.
The patient denied any recent travel history but did report spending fourteen days in Nicaragua approximately nine months prior to presentation. While in Nicaragua, the patient recalled a transient diarrheal illness that resolved without incident. The patient denied a history of smoking, alcohol use, illegal drug use, or high-risk sexual behavior.
On physical examination, the patient was awake, alert, and oriented to person, place, and time and in no acute distress. The patient’s vita
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's FeverPAIN score? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 37-year-old Indian woman presented to our university based, academic emergency department, with a chief complaint of fever of one-week duration. The patient reported the fever was persistent and f)
      -> 2.0 [$0.0015]
  RESULT: predicted=2.0, expected=3.0, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.8628: (calculator_name=Delta Gap, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 29-year-old man is brought to the emergency department after being found unresponsive at home. The patient's roommate says that the patient had previously been feeling well. The patient and his roommate had a celebration the night before, where they drank homemade liquor. His temperature is 37°C (98.6°F), pulse is 126/min, respirations are 30/min and shallow, and blood pressure is 84/44 mm Hg. Pulse oximetry on room air shows an oxygen saturation of 96%. He is unresponsive to painful stimuli. The pupils are 3 mm, equal, round, and reactive to light. The lungs are clear to auscultation. Cardiac examination shows a grade 2/6 systolic murmur along the left parasternal border. Laboratory studies show:
Serum
Na+ 146 mmol/L
K+ 7.7 mmol/L
Cl- 111 mmol/L
Urea nitrogen 5.8 mmol/L
Glucose 83 mg/dL
Lactate 11.2 mmol/L
Serum osmolality 379 mosm/kg
Arterial blood gas analysis shows:
pH 6.69
pCO2 53 mm Hg
pO2 84 mm Hg
HCO3- 4.3 mmol/L
The patient is intubated and fluid resuscitation is begun.
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's delta gap in mEq/L? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["A 29-year-old man is brought to the emergency department after being found unresponsive at home. The patient's roommate says that the patient had previously been feeling well. The patient and his ro)
      -> 23.0 [$0.0011]
  RESULT: predicted=23.0, expected=18.7, absolute_error=4.300000000000001

--- Case train.9664: (calculator_name=Glasgow-Blatchford Bleeding Score (GBS), category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 47-year-old woman was driven to the emergency department by her partner after awakening at 3 a.m. with an urgent need to defecate and passing what she described as “thick, pitch-black sludge that smelled like tar and wouldn’t flush clean.” She reported two additional similarly dark, malodorous bowel movements over the next four hours, the last occurring in the emergency department restroom shortly before vital signs were recorded. She denied vomiting, hematemesis, coffee-ground material, bright red blood per rectum, dizziness, tunnel vision, loss of consciousness, palpitations, or chest discomfort. The patient recalled a two-week history of gnawing epigastric discomfort worsened by an empty stomach and partially relieved with milk or over-the-counter calcium carbonate tablets; she attributed the pain to intermittent use of naproxen 440 mg twice daily for flare-ups of longstanding bilateral knee osteoarthritis. She had completed a two-week course of omeprazole several months earlier after an outpatient urea breath test confirmed Helicobacter pylori infection, but she admitted that she stopped the proton-pump inhibitor after only ten days because the abdominal pain improved. Her medical background otherwise includes migraine headaches treated with sumatriptan as needed and well-controlled generalized anxiety for which she takes sertraline 50 mg nightly; she has never been diagnosed with hypertension, coronary artery disease, valvular abnormalities, cardiomyopathy, diabetes, kidney disease, chronic liver conditions, or bleeding diatheses. Surgical history is limited to an uncomplicated laparoscopic cholecystectomy eight years ago. She does not take aspirin, clopidogrel, anticoagulants, glucocorticoids, or herbal supplements. She drinks one 12-ounce beer on weekends, quit smoking ten years ago after an eight-pack-year history, and denies recreational drug use. Family history is notable for a father with gastric ulcer disease and a mother with hypothyroidism; there is 
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Glasgow-Blatchford Bleeding score? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 47-year-old woman was driven to the emergency department by her partner after awakening at 3 a.m. with an urgent need to defecate and passing what she described as “thick, pitch-black sludge that )
      -> 1.0 [$0.0019]
  RESULT: predicted=1.0, expected=0.0, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.10246: (calculator_name=Framingham Risk Score for Hard Coronary Heart Disease, category=lab test, output_type=decimal) ---
  Input arg 0: A 46-year-old woman walked into the early-afternoon internal-medicine clinic for a pre-deployment examination requested by the international aid organization that has hired her to supervise potable-water projects in sub-Saharan well fields for the next eighteen months; she placed a leather-bound field notebook and a reusable bamboo coffee cup on the counter, explained that her clearance paperwork “cannot lag behind the drilling schedule,” and reported hiking six miles over uneven terrain the previous weekend without chest tightness, jaw or arm discomfort, undue shortness of breath, palpitations, blackout spells, or leg cramps. Her medical history is notable only for primary hypertension identified during a routine obstetric visit nine years ago; since then, she has taken amlodipine 10 mg every morning and chlorthalidone 25 mg three times weekly, missing no doses according to the pharmacy refill record that she displayed on her phone. She has never been informed that her blood sugars crept above normal, no clinician has suggested home glucose monitoring, and she has never used metformin, insulin, or similar agents. There is no record of myocardial infarction, coronary catheterization, coronary bypass, angioplasty, heart failure admission, stroke, or transient ischemic attack. Childhood illnesses were limited to uncomplicated varicella and a tonsillectomy at age eight; adult surgical history consists of laparoscopic removal of an ovarian dermoid six years ago without complication. Her mother, 72, developed mild blood-pressure elevation in her fifties but remains free of vascular events; her father, 74, underwent knee arthroplasty last year and continues to cycle recreationally; two younger brothers surf competitively and have not reported cardiac disease. When the conversation turned to lifestyle triggers, she remarked that she grew up in a household where her father enforced a strict “no lit tobacco” rule because the smell made him seasick, and she kept that policy i
  Input arg 1: Based on the Framingham Risk Score for Hard Coronary Heart Disease, what is the likelihood of 10-year risk of MI or death for this patient? Please return your answer as a percentage value. You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 46-year-old woman walked into the early-afternoon internal-medicine clinic for a pre-deployment examination requested by the international aid organization that has hired her to supervise potable-)
      -> 1.0 [$0.0016]
  RESULT: predicted=1.0, expected=0.589, absolute_error=0.41100000000000003

--- Case train.9067: (calculator_name=Estimated Due Date, category=date, output_type=date) ---
  Input arg 0: The patient's last menstrual period was on 12/04/2011. Her cycle length is 24 days.
  Input arg 1: Using Naegele's Rule for estimated due date based on the last menstrual period and cycle length, what is the the patient's estimated due date? Your response should be in the format of M/D/Y (ie 08/31/2023, 07/03/2000) with just the date and no other text.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["The patient's last menstrual period was on 12/04/2011. Her cycle length is 24 days.", "Using Naegele's Rule for estimated due date based on the last menstrual period and cycle length, what is the th)
      -> 0.0 [$0.0010]
  RESULT: predicted=0.0, expected=09/05/2012, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.10524: (calculator_name=APACHE II Score, category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 90-year-old man who until this morning had lived alone, prepared his own meals, and managed his antihypertensive tablet without assistance was discovered by a neighbor slumped over the kitchen table, mumbling incoherently and breathing rapidly after reportedly vomiting several times overnight; the neighbor last saw him two days earlier when he appeared well, and outpatient records from a primary-care visit six weeks ago documented an active lifestyle, a serum creatinine of 1.1 mg/dL, normal electrolytes, and no chronic steroid use, cytotoxic therapy, transplant history, or other condition that would compromise his immune defenses. Emergency medical services arrived nine minutes after the call and found him pale, shivering, and soaked with cold sweat; a temporal artery thermometer registered 35.7 °C, radial pulse was thready at 142 beats /min, respirations were counted at 35 breaths /min with shallow chest excursions, and non-invasive blood pressure cycled at 129/53 mm Hg on two consecutive cuffs. Capillary glucose was 104 mg/dL, and fingertip oximetry on ambient air read 68 %, prompting the crew to apply a tightly sealed facemask connected to the ambulance blender delivering 65 % inspired oxygen; during the twelve-minute transport he received neither intravenous fluids nor pharmacologic agents, and the mask settings were not altered. On stretcher entry to the resuscitation area—and before any hospital-initiated intervention—a radial arterial sample was obtained while he remained on the same oxygen source; analysis returned a pH of 7.60 with a markedly decreased PaCO₂ of 22 mm Hg (value confirmed on repeat cartridge), PaO₂ 82 mm Hg, and an analyzer-calculated alveolar-to-arterial gradient of 354 mm Hg, consistent with severe impairment of oxygen transfer in the face of pronounced respiratory alkalosis. Simultaneous point-of-care chemistry revealed a serum sodium of 126 mmol/L, potassium 5.8 mmol/L, chloride 97 mmol/L, bicarbonate 18 mmol/L, blood urea nitrogen 48 m
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's APACHE II score?
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 90-year-old man who until this morning had lived alone, prepared his own meals, and managed his antihypertensive tablet without assistance was discovered by a neighbor slumped over the kitchen tab)
      -> 33.0 [$0.0016]
  RESULT: predicted=33.0, expected=35.0, absolute_error=2.0

--- Case train.10334: (calculator_name=Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI), category=risk, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 20-year-old woman, a second-year university music major who plays the cello in the campus orchestra, presented to the student health center this afternoon for a comprehensive review of her chronic conditions before she departs for an intensive summer performance program overseas; she would like written documentation of medical stability for the conservatory staff and guidance on packing her medications. She has never experienced a heart attack, congestive heart failure, limb ischemia, stroke, hemiplegic episodes, or any form of malignancy, and an HIV antigen/antibody test performed six months ago was non-reactive. Respiratory issues have followed her since early childhood: she was hospitalized twice for wheezing before kindergarten and has since been maintained on daily budesonide-formoterol (160/4.5 µg two inhalations morning and night) together with a once-daily tiotropium dry-powder capsule and as-needed albuterol; a canister lasts roughly six weeks, used most often when sprinting between lecture halls. The last emergency department visit for bronchospasm occurred at age 15, and she has never required intubation, non-invasive ventilation, or systemic corticosteroids in the past three years. Spirometry performed by her pulmonologist one month ago recorded an FEV₁ of 2.35 L (68 % predicted) with an FEV₁/FVC ratio of 0.59 and minimal post-bronchodilator change, and today her oxygen saturation is 97 % breathing ambient air with a respiratory rate of 16 breaths/min while speaking in full sentences. Orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, pedal swelling, exertional chest pressure, palpitations, syncope, or exercise limitation beyond cough-induced breathlessness are denied, and a screening transthoracic echocardiogram last winter for scholarship athletics documented normal chamber dimensions, an ejection fraction of 63 %, and no regional wall-motion abnormality. In parallel, she carries a diagnosis of seropositive juvenile idiopathic arthritis that has persisted into
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI)? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 20-year-old woman, a second-year university music major who plays the cello in the campus orchestra, presented to the student health center this afternoon for a comprehensive review of her chronic)
      -> 2.0 [$0.0018]
  RESULT: predicted=2.0, expected=3.0, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.9309: (calculator_name=Estimated of Conception, category=date, output_type=date) ---
  Input arg 0: The patient's last menstrual period was on 04/28/2003.
  Input arg 1: Based on the patient's last menstrual period, what is the the patient's estimated date of conception? Your answer should be in the format of M/D/Y (ie 08/31/2023, 07/03/2000) with just the date and not other text.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["The patient's last menstrual period was on 04/28/2003.", "Based on the patient's last menstrual period, what is the the patient's estimated date of conception? Your answer should be in the format of)
      -> 5122003.0 [$0.0009]
  RESULT: predicted=5122003.0, expected=05/12/2003, absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.9883: (calculator_name=PSI Score: Pneumonia Severity Index for CAP, category=severity, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 58-year-old woman arrived at the emergency department in the late afternoon after three days of progressively worsening cough and left-sided chest discomfort that sharpened with deep inspiration and radiated toward the scapular tip. She reported low-grade chills but denied feeling overtly febrile, and she had remained fully oriented, continuing to manage household finances and converse normally with family up until the moment she chose to seek care. Her past medical history includes an embolic cerebrovascular accident six years earlier secondary to paroxysmal atrial flutter; she completed inpatient rehabilitation at that time and now manifests only a subtle pronator drift of the right arm when fatigued but no speech or gait disturbances. She also carries a long-standing diagnosis of chronic hepatitis C with bridging fibrosis documented on elastography two years ago, for which antiviral therapy was offered but deferred because of insurance issues; she has never developed ascites, encephalopathy, or variceal bleeding, and her most recent outpatient liver panel three months ago showed mild transaminitis but preserved synthetic function. She has no record of structural or ischemic cardiac dysfunction, has never been told she had reduced ejection fraction, and specifically denies orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, or lower-extremity swelling at baseline. Her daily medications consist of apixaban for secondary stroke prevention, low-dose aspirin discontinued at the time anticoagulation was started, and intermittent acetaminophen for tension headaches. She quit smoking two decades ago after a 15-pack-year exposure and drinks one glass of wine with dinner perhaps twice a month; she has never used illicit substances. No recent antibiotic courses, hospital admissions, or invasive procedures are recorded, and she completed the current season’s influenza vaccination in early autumn. On arrival she was seated upright on the stretcher, speaking in full sentences, without 
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Pneumonia Severity Index (PSI)? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 58-year-old woman arrived at the emergency department in the late afternoon after three days of progressively worsening cough and left-sided chest discomfort that sharpened with deep inspiration a)
      -> 78.0 [$0.0018]
  RESULT: predicted=78.0, expected=108.0, absolute_error=30.0

--- Case train.9346: (calculator_name=Estimated Gestational Age, category=date, output_type=date) ---
  Input arg 0: The patient's last menstrual period was on 05/05/2018. Today's date is 01/11/2019.
  Input arg 1: Based on the patient's last menstrual period, what is the patient's estimated gestational age? Your answer should be a tuple, specifying the number of weeks and days (i.e. (4 weeks, 3 days), (0 weeks, 5 days), (1 week, 5 days), (8 weeks, 0 days)).
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(["The patient's last menstrual period was on 05/05/2018. Today's date is 01/11/2019.", "Based on the patient's last menstrual period, what is the patient's estimated gestational age? Your answer shoul)
      -> 35.857 [$0.0009]
  RESULT: predicted=35.857, expected=('35 weeks', '6 days'), absolute_error=1.0

--- Case train.4429: (calculator_name=Centor Score (Modified/McIsaac) for Strep Pharyngitis, category=severity, output_type=integer) ---
  Input arg 0: A 17-year-old Thai female with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection who had received TIV for 2012-2013 in August 2013 presented at the Bamrasnaradura Infectious Diseases Institute (BIDI) complaining of 2 days of fever, malaise, headache, cough, and sore throat in April 2014. She had been diagnosed with HIV infection confirmed by machine-based assay (ArchiTECT, Abbott, chemiluminescent test), particle agglutination test (Serodia HIV, Fujirebio), and immunochromatography test (Allere Determine or TriLine) at BIDI. Approximately 13 years prior to presentation, she received zidovudine (AZT) plus didanosine (ddI) from 2001 to 2005; AZT, ddI, and efavirenz (EFV) from 2005 to 2007; and has been receiving EFV plus lopinavir/ritonavir in combination (LPV/r) from 2007 to present. Before TIV was given in 2013, she had a CD4 count of 922 cell/µL (31%), plasma HIV-1 RNA <40 copies/mL by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), a body weight of 85.7 kg, and a height of 165 cm. She received TIV 2011-2012 on August 1, 2012, and TIV 2012-2013 on August 28, 2013. TIV in 2012-2013 included the A/California/7/2009 (H1N1)-derived strain using NYMC X-179A, the A/Victoria/361/2011 (H3N2)-like strain using IVR-65, and the B/Wisconsin/1/2010-like strain using NYMC BX-39 derived from the B/Hubei-Wujiagang/158/2009 strains. At presentation of influenza-like illness symptoms, the physical examination was unremarkable except for a body temperature 38.5°C and body mass index of 31.48 kg/m2. Because of a positive rapid influenza test (Quidel QuickVue Influenza A+B test), the patient was given oseltamivir for 5 days and the clinical symptoms resolved The positive rapid influenza test result was from the BIDI, Nonthaburi, Thailand, with a confirmatory PCR result from the Siriraj Influenza Cooperative Research Center, Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Siriraj Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand. The specimen was identified by the amino acid sequence of full 
  Input arg 1: What is the patient's Centor Score? You should use the patient's medical values and health status when they were first admitted to the hospital prior to any treatment.
  Execution trace (1 LLM calls):
    calculate_medical_value(['A 17-year-old Thai female with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection who had received TIV for 2012-2013 in August 2013 presented at the Bamrasnaradura Infectious Diseases Institute ()
      -> 1.0 [$0.0014]
  RESULT: predicted=1.0, expected=2.0, absolute_error=1.0
